README.md, before:

# LetsPlayGames

![Website home page screenshot](assets/images/readme/site-screenshots.png)
[View the page on github here](https://anag0307.github.io/rock-paper-scissor/)

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#Introduction)

2. [UX](#UX)

    i. [Ideal User Demographic](#Ideal-User-Demographic)

    ii. [User Stories](#User-Stories)

    iii. [Design Planes](#Design-Planes)

3. [Features](#Features)

    i. [Landing Page](#Landing-Page)

    ii. [Game Section](#Game-Page)

    iii. [Footer](#Footer)

4. [Testing, Validation and Deployment](#Testing-and-Deployment)

    i. [Testing](#testing)

    ii. [Validation](#Validation)

    ii. [Deployment](#deployment)

5. [Issues and Bugs](#Issues-and-Bugs)

6. [Technologies Used](#Technologies-Used)

7. [Credits](#Credits)

***

## Introduction

(...)

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## UX

### Ideal User Demographic 
#### The ideal user of this website is:
- Current social media followers.
- Potential followers.
- Followers of similar platforms.
- Gamers.


### User Stories
#### New and potential users goals:
- As a new follower, I want to easily navigate the website and use it intuitively.
- As a new follower, I want to be able to play from different devices (desktop, mobile phone, etc.).
- As a new follower, I want to find out more about the game platform through their social media links.

#### Current Social Media Followers
- As a current social media follower, I want to discover new games through their social media platforms.
- As a current social media follower, I want to be able to keep playing to a game that I like and enjoy.
- As a current social media follower, I want to be able to connect to other gamers through social media platforms.


[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

### Design Planes

In order to create a simple but effective website, the developer considered what were the goals and functionality needs of the site and worked in accordance. The user described above were taken into consideration. 

#### **Strategy**

##### Who is this website for and what does it do?

1. Demographics:
    1. Current and new followers.
    2. Males and females aged from 5 to 99 years old.
    3. People who wishes to play an old and simple game while they commute, wait at the doctor's, etc.

2. Functional Requirements:
    1. The game is accessed and played in a simple and easy way.
    2. The user can access social media platforms.
    3. The user can access the rules and understand how the game was created.

3. Benefits for the game platform:
    1. Build an online presence.
    2. Be able to focus on only one game at a time.
    3. Be able to customize the site to the thematics of the game.

4. Importance/Feasability Curve

![Importance/Feasability Curve](assets/images/readme/strategy.png)

#### **Scope**

In order to align the features defined in the strategy section, the scope was divided in two categories:

**Content Requirements**

The user will be looking for:

- General information about the game.
- Rules of the game.
- Play the game against the computer.
- Keep a score of the rounds played.

**Functionality Requirements**

- Easily navigate the site.
- Easily play the game.
- Easily understand the rules.
- Easily access social media links for the LET'S Play!Game platform.

#### **Structure**

The website is been organised in a way the user can find the different sections in a strcutured but also relevant way. The results are as follows:

1. Landing Page:
- Origins of the game.
- Rules of the game.
- Button link to the game.

2. Game Page:
- Player and computer playing area.
- Score area.

3. Footer - Social Media Links:
- Facebook.
- Twitter.
- Youtube.

#### **Skeleton**

How is the information represented and how does the user find such information:

- The landing page introduces the user to the origins of the game. It explains the historical background and the twsist to the game introduced by the creators of this version (link to their site provided as well) and includes a video to the TV show that made this version popular.
- The navigation is clear and simple: from the main page there is a button to click to play the game and from the game page the user can click the the top bar to get back to the main page.
- The footer contains icons representing the different social media profiles used by the game platform.
- Wireframe mockups were created in [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/ECj7IYln3FYai5damrGpnC/Rock%2C-paper%2C-scissor%2C-lizard%2C-Spock?node-id=0%3A1 "Link to Figma") to ensure the structure represented all the requirements described above (different versions were created).

#### **Surface**

The site needed a simple and fresh look that allowed the user to navigate the site without too many distractions. The users were also taken into account:

- The main targeted users are people from a wide age range so it had to be as intuitive and simple as possible.
- The colors used on the website creates a clear separation between sections but at the same time the background doesn't distract the user from the game. The colors are consistent as well throught the site.
- To create consistency, the fonts chosen were Fira Sans for the Main text and Ubuntu for the tiles.
- The navigation is designed to work efficiently as well as to provide functionality.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Features

This website is designed for current and potential gamers who want to learn and play the game for a little while. At the same time the user can find the social media links for networking.

### Landing Page

The landing title and subtitle is designed for any user to understand straight away what is the website about. Before getting started with the game it explains the historical origins of the game and the variant of it, as well as a video of the TV series that popularised it, Big Bang Theory. 

After this section we find the rules section explaining how to win at the game and a button with a direct link to the game page.

### Game Section

The design of this page is also kept as simple and straight forward as possible as well as maintaining the design of the landing page to create consistency. The page is divided in 3 parts:
- Score area: where the results of the differents rounds is kept.
- Image and result area: where the images of the selection made by the computer appear and at the center we can see the outcome of the choices made.
- Option area: buttons where the user can make his/her choice.

### Footer

The footer is been kept simple and minimalistic. The user can see the icons to the different social media where the game platform has a profile open and when clicking a different page opens and directs the user to the site. The footer is the same in all pages to create consistency.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Testing and Deployment

### Testing

The developer has tested the following on the site to ensure everything works as expected:

- The landing page text is readable and the link to the creators site opens on a new tab.
- The video starts on a click and the user can use the commands.
- The rules diagram is readble.
- The link to the game works and the page doesn't open on a separate page.
- On the game page the user options works on a mouse click and the computer responds by making a random choice.
- Once computer and user have made a choice a result is showed and the score updated as expected.
- When clicking on the social media icons a link to them opens on a new page.
- When clicking on the platform name on the top center of the page the page is redirected to the landing page whitout opening a new tab.
- Both pages are responsive to both medium and small screens and in both everything works as expected as well.

The observations are as follows:

- On screens of just over 1000px the game page height was not long enough to cover the whole page and a white area was present. The issue was solving by making the buttons of the user choice longer so instead of one line they need two lines to show correctly and all the space is used.

### Validation

No errors have been found when checking HTML and CSS code. To validate the code the developer has used:

- [Jigsaw](https://validator.w3.org/ "link to the validator website for CSS")

- [W3C](https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input "link to the validator website for HTML")

- [JSHint](https://jshint.com/ "link to the validator website for JavaScript")

### Deployment

This project was developed using [Visual Studio Code Insiders](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders/ "Link to Visual Studio Code site") and all commit/push commands were performed in the software's terminal.

#### Github Pages

1. Log into [GitHub](https://github.com/ "link to GitHub website").

2. Select the repositery to deploy.

3. Click on Settings tab.

4. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section under Source and open it, it will open in a different tab.

5. Select "Branch: master" and then on the new dropdown menu that will appear select "/(root)" and click Save.

6. The "Github Pages" section now contains a link to the deployed page.

#### Forking the Repository

1. Log into [GitHub](https://github.com/ "link to GitHub website").

2. Select the repository to fork.

3. Click on "Fork".

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

### Issues and Bugs

(...)

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Technologies Used

### Main Languages Used

- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML)

- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)

### Frameworks, Libraries and Programs Used

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/ "Link to FontAwesome") was used.
- [Unicorn Revealer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unicorn-revealer/lmlkphhdlngaicolpmaakfmhplagoaln "link to Unicorn Revealer") was used to identify the overflows on the website.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/ "Link to GitHub") was used to store the project.
- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/ "Link to Figma homepage") was used to create the wireframes during the design phase of the project.
- [Am I Responsive?](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/# "Link to Am I Responsive Homepage") was used to see responsive design throughout the process and to generate mockup imagery to be used on README file.
- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/ "link to Unsplash") was used for the picture used in the Whats is A dreamcatcher section.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Credits

### Code

The below sites were consulted by the developer to better understand the JavaScript code. Any code used from those sites have been carefully referenced with the code.

The sites consulted are:

- [w3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/ "link to w3s")

- [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com "link to Stack Overflow")

- [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/ "link to CSS Tricks")

### Media

The images were sourced from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/ "link to Unsplash").

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

### Acknowledgements

(...)


[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames)

Commit message:

Update README file with the description of the site and added future implementations section

README.md, after:

# LetsPlayGames

![Website home page screenshot](assets/images/readme/site-screenshots.png)
[View the page on github here](https://anag0307.github.io/rock-paper-scissor/)

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#Introduction)

2. [UX](#UX)

    i. [Ideal User Demographic](#Ideal-User-Demographic)

    ii. [User Stories](#User-Stories)

    iii. [Design Planes](#Design-Planes)

3. [Features](#Features)

    i. [Landing Page](#Landing-Page)

    ii. [Game Section](#Game-Page)

    iii. [Footer](#Footer)

4. [Testing, Validation and Deployment](#Testing-and-Deployment)

    i. [Testing](#testing)

    ii. [Validation](#Validation)

    ii. [Deployment](#deployment)

5. [Issues and Bugs](#Issues-and-Bugs)

6. [Technologies Used](#Technologies-Used)

7. [Credits](#Credits)

8. [Future Implementations](#Future-Implementations)


***

## Introduction

This website is been built for 'Let´s Play!Games', a ficticious online gaming platform. The website hosts the variant of the ancient game Rock, Paper, Scissors but with a variation adding Lizard, Spock into the options to choose on. The site provides a little information about the origins of the game, how it became popular, what are the rules of the game and finally, the game itself. The user can play either on their desktop, tablets or smartphones and allows to access the social media platform of the gaming platform.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## UX

### Ideal User Demographic 
#### The ideal user of this website is:
- Current social media followers.
- Potential followers.
- Followers of similar platforms.
- Gamers.


### User Stories
#### New and potential users goals:
- As a new follower, I want to easily navigate the website and use it intuitively.
- As a new follower, I want to be able to play from different devices (desktop, mobile phone, etc.).
- As a new follower, I want to find out more about the game platform through their social media links.

#### Current Social Media Followers
- As a current social media follower, I want to discover new games through their social media platforms.
- As a current social media follower, I want to be able to keep playing to a game that I like and enjoy.
- As a current social media follower, I want to be able to connect to other gamers through social media platforms.


[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

### Design Planes

In order to create a simple but effective website, the developer considered what were the goals and functionality needs of the site and worked in accordance. The user described above were taken into consideration. 

#### **Strategy**

##### Who is this website for and what does it do?

1. Demographics:
    1. Current and new followers.
    2. Males and females aged from 5 to 99 years old.
    3. People who wishes to play an old and simple game while they commute, wait at the doctor's, etc.

2. Functional Requirements:
    1. The game is accessed and played in a simple and easy way.
    2. The user can access social media platforms.
    3. The user can access the rules and understand how the game was created.

3. Benefits for the game platform:
    1. Build an online presence.
    2. Be able to focus on only one game at a time.
    3. Be able to customize the site to the thematics of the game.

4. Importance/Feasability Curve

![Importance/Feasability Curve](assets/images/readme/strategy.png)

#### **Scope**

In order to align the features defined in the strategy section, the scope was divided in two categories:

**Content Requirements**

The user will be looking for:

- General information about the game.
- Rules of the game.
- Play the game against the computer.
- Keep a score of the rounds played.

**Functionality Requirements**

- Easily navigate the site.
- Easily play the game.
- Easily understand the rules.
- Easily access social media links for the LET'S Play!Game platform.

#### **Structure**

The website is been organised in a way the user can find the different sections in a strcutured but also relevant way. The results are as follows:

1. Landing Page:
- Origins of the game.
- Rules of the game.
- Button link to the game.

2. Game Page:
- Player and computer playing area.
- Score area.

3. Footer - Social Media Links:
- Facebook.
- Twitter.
- Youtube.

#### **Skeleton**

How is the information represented and how does the user find such information:

- The landing page introduces the user to the origins of the game. It explains the historical background and the twsist to the game introduced by the creators of this version (link to their site provided as well) and includes a video to the TV show that made this version popular.
- The navigation is clear and simple: from the main page there is a button to click to play the game and from the game page the user can click the the top bar to get back to the main page.
- The footer contains icons representing the different social media profiles used by the game platform.
- Wireframe mockups were created in [Figma](https://www.figma.com/file/ECj7IYln3FYai5damrGpnC/Rock%2C-paper%2C-scissor%2C-lizard%2C-Spock?node-id=0%3A1 "Link to Figma") to ensure the structure represented all the requirements described above (different versions were created).

#### **Surface**

The site needed a simple and fresh look that allowed the user to navigate the site without too many distractions. The users were also taken into account:

- The main targeted users are people from a wide age range so it had to be as intuitive and simple as possible.
- The colors used on the website creates a clear separation between sections but at the same time the background doesn't distract the user from the game. The colors are consistent as well throught the site.
- To create consistency, the fonts chosen were Fira Sans for the Main text and Ubuntu for the tiles.
- The navigation is designed to work efficiently as well as to provide functionality.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Features

This website is designed for current and potential gamers who want to learn and play the game for a little while. At the same time the user can find the social media links for networking.

### Landing Page

The landing title and subtitle is designed for any user to understand straight away what is the website about. Before getting started with the game it explains the historical origins of the game and the variant of it, as well as a video of the TV series that popularised it, Big Bang Theory. 

After this section we find the rules section explaining how to win at the game and a button with a direct link to the game page.

### Game Section

The design of this page is also kept as simple and straight forward as possible as well as maintaining the design of the landing page to create consistency. The page is divided in 3 parts:
- Score area: where the results of the differents rounds is kept.
- Image and result area: where the images of the selection made by the computer appear and at the center we can see the outcome of the choices made.
- Option area: buttons where the user can make his/her choice.

### Footer

The footer is been kept simple and minimalistic. The user can see the icons to the different social media where the game platform has a profile open and when clicking a different page opens and directs the user to the site. The footer is the same in all pages to create consistency.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Testing and Deployment

### Testing

The developer has tested the following on the site to ensure everything works as expected:

- The landing page text is readable and the link to the creators site opens on a new tab.
- The video starts on a click and the user can use the commands.
- The rules diagram is readble.
- The link to the game works and the page doesn't open on a separate page.
- On the game page the user options works on a mouse click and the computer responds by making a random choice.
- Once computer and user have made a choice a result is showed and the score updated as expected.
- When clicking on the social media icons a link to them opens on a new page.
- When clicking on the platform name on the top center of the page the page is redirected to the landing page whitout opening a new tab.
- Both pages are responsive to both medium and small screens and in both everything works as expected as well.

The observations are as follows:

- On screens of just over 1000px the game page height was not long enough to cover the whole page and a white area was present. The issue was solving by making the buttons of the user choice longer so instead of one line they need two lines to show correctly and all the space is used.

### Validation

No errors have been found when checking HTML and CSS code. To validate the code the developer has used:

- [Jigsaw](https://validator.w3.org/ "link to the validator website for CSS")

- [W3C](https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input "link to the validator website for HTML")

- [JSHint](https://jshint.com/ "link to the validator website for JavaScript")

### Deployment

This project was developed using [Visual Studio Code Insiders](https://code.visualstudio.com/insiders/ "Link to Visual Studio Code site") and all commit/push commands were performed in the software's terminal.

#### Github Pages

1. Log into [GitHub](https://github.com/ "link to GitHub website").

2. Select the repositery to deploy.

3. Click on Settings tab.

4. Scroll down to the GitHub Pages section under Source and open it, it will open in a different tab.

5. Select "Branch: master" and then on the new dropdown menu that will appear select "/(root)" and click Save.

6. The "Github Pages" section now contains a link to the deployed page.

#### Forking the Repository

1. Log into [GitHub](https://github.com/ "link to GitHub website").

2. Select the repository to fork.

3. Click on "Fork".

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

### Issues and Bugs

No issues or bugs were found at the time of testing the site.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Technologies Used

### Main Languages Used

- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)

- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML)

- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)

### Frameworks, Libraries and Programs Used

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/ "Link to FontAwesome") was used.
- [Unicorn Revealer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/unicorn-revealer/lmlkphhdlngaicolpmaakfmhplagoaln "link to Unicorn Revealer") was used to identify the overflows on the website.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/ "Link to GitHub") was used to store the project.
- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/ "Link to Figma homepage") was used to create the wireframes during the design phase of the project.
- [Am I Responsive?](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/# "Link to Am I Responsive Homepage") was used to see responsive design throughout the process and to generate mockup imagery to be used on README file.
- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/ "link to Unsplash") was used for the picture used in the Whats is A dreamcatcher section.

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

***

## Credits

### Code

The below sites were consulted by the developer to better understand the JavaScript code. Any code used from those sites have been carefully referenced with the code.

The sites consulted are:

- [w3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/ "link to w3s")

- [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com "link to Stack Overflow")

- [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/ "link to CSS Tricks")

### Media

The images were sourced from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/ "link to Unsplash").

[Back to Top ⇧](#LetsPlayGames) 

## Future Implementations

As future a implementation planned to develop on a later stage to give the game a little more variation and fun is the following: in the game page, once the computer and the user has made the choice the text prompting at the moment is very static (only three responses available). In the future more choices will be created to provide more variety and unexpected answer once the outcome is announced.
